Page is a WIP and only covers Basic Devo for now.
*****This guide is no longer applicable/out of date as of version 0.24.4 due to a major update to the death wave ultimate weapon*****
f
Devo refers to any variant of devolving (devo) your tower for the purpose of farming coins. Default devo aims to improve tower hp by up to x7 for the purpose of survivability.
Contents
1
Types of Devo
2
Full Devo Explanation
3
Requirements
3.1
UW Sync
3.2
Death Wave Investment
3.3
Cards
4
Workshop
4.1
Stats to Max
4.2
Stats to Ignore
4.3
Optional Stats
4.3.1
Maxable
5
Special Notes
6
Early Devo
6.1
Tips and Tricks
7
Surviving
Types of Devo
Max Devo, Crescent Devo, Orb Devo, LM Devo, SM Devo
Full Devo Explanation
Devo is a state of “Devolving” your tower to a bare basic level in the majority of stats to limit as much as possible how many enemies your bullets are killing so that they stack up for DW to kill. At a basic level, this will allow you to max out the DW health bonus at x7. More advanced versions discussed will build off this for coin bonuses.
Through High workshop damage and increasing some stats throughout the run you can maintain a devo state for quite a while through lifesteal alone.
Requirements
Recommended Lifetime coins begins at 1 bil but will be a smaller boost over blender. 10-15 bil is recommended.
UW Sync
Black Hole and Golden Tower need to be synced in order to get substantial coin gains.
Death Wave can be synced for Max Devo to be the most efficient.
Smart Missile can be synced for SM Devo
Death Wave Investment
You can go a variety of directions with DW.
Note:
Because of the introduction of modules, you can get away with less upgrades to DW and wave by leveling core and cannon modules and rerolling for higher rarity DW effects on modules.
Minimal Investment - Either no upgrades or a few damage upgrades and 2nd wave. This will be entirely to get x7 HP and then transition to your farming method of choice. The more lifetime coins you have the easier x7 will be with a lower DW.
Optimal Investment - 800 Stones to sync with GT and BH at 3:20 plus the minimal investment. The decreased sync will help reach x7 considerably and will unlock MaxDevo strategy.
Note:
By using Multiverse Nexus, you can get a sync earlier than the investment stated here. Because of the penalties to cooldown from this module, you will still want to sync them naturally if you go this route.
Further Investment - While investing further will increase coin production, DW, GT and BH get expensive the lower you go. It is recommended to max Chrono Field prior to investing any further if you choose to do so.
Cards
Enemy Balance
Cash
Coins
Crit Coin
HP
Fortress
Def %
Damage
Berzerker - Will SIGNIFICANTLY help DW
Wave Skip
For early devo you want to leave damage cards off and add them when DW cant kill anymore just to optimize your earlier waves.
Crit Chance is great addition when you have more slots. ASPD card can boost lifesteal once bullets aren't one shotting enemies. You can test when to add it easily enough.
Slow Aura can help soften how much damage you take.
Workshop
Have the respec lab finished.
You want to initially put equal levels into HP and Damage and enough Def Abs levels to get you at least a few hundred waves just to help you survive while you build HP.
Then Upgrade HP twice as many levels as damage for a while until you can easily max HP in a run, then swap to Damage until damage and HP are the same levels then Damage twice as many as HP.
Adding more Def Abs here and there can help as well.
Stats to Max
Defense %, Lifesteal, Cash Bonus, Cash / Wave, Coins/ Kill, Coins / Wave, Interest / Wave
Stats to Ignore
Attack Speed, Multishot Chance, Rapid Fire Chance, Bounce Shot Chance, ALL Free Upgrades, Land Mine Chance, Thorns, Range
Optional Stats
These are optional for things like lazy devo and making transition to blender or GC easier with cash during a run
Maxable
Multi Shot Targets, Rapid Fire Duration, Bounce Shot Targets, Defy Death, Packages, Shock Wave Freq, Knockback Chance
Crit Chance - You can max this for lazy devo, but early on will make getting x7 more difficult because your bullets will kill longer.
Crit Factor - 100 Levels is fairly Cheap, only go higher if you can afford it easily
DPM - 100 levels as well
Thorns - DO NOT go to high, test various amounts during runs to find a sweet spot somewhere between 5% and 20% to start and you can do more with cash in a run
Knockback Force-You can Max this but dont add multi shot chance during a run if you do. This will help transtions
Special Notes
Orbs- You can Max orb speed and then add an orb or 2 in a run, or leave it alone. there are a lot of paths for orbs in devo
Super Crit - Unlock this when it is easily affordable and do some cheap upgrades on it, then just max with cash. Will Drastically help your DW out
Shockwave Size - 1.7-1.9 to help with orb devo
Early Devo
Early devo is the default devo with the objective of maxing the HP multiplier. Devo can be rough without a lot of damage since it limits how much you can lifesteal and how long your DW can kill. You will need to start without crit chance and damage cards to maximize stacking enemies during lower waves, adding them in when you need them to keep killing.
High Def Abs will really help out here so you are not receiving a ton of damage even in later waves.
When you have enough coins to easily x7, you are ready to lazy devo where you can max certain stats and afk more.
Tips and Tricks
If you accidentally add too many bullets you can unequip your damage or berzerker card to let enemies stack up still. Just be careful of lifesteal. This works best if you have really high HP in workshop.
Optimal Tower range is 40-45m. 30m is fine for Max Devo but likely too small for orb devo and you lose coin bot coverage due to both coin bot shrinking at smaller range and losing coin bot coverage of the orb line due to smaller travel pattern.
Offsetting DW is no longer required and can actually lead to less coins early on in runs. But you can offset DW later in max devo to go further by turning DW off and turning it back on when there is about 5s of BH left, so that BH damage can soften them.
Surviving
The lower your lifetime coins is the more struggle there will be, but it gets easier. Def Abs is massive for surviving. With enough levels, you can go a few hundred waves without taking damage even on mid tiers.
Eventually though you will be in lifesteal mode, so you slowly add attack speed, then bounce shot or rapid fire. Just test when to add them. When your workshop gets strong enough you can survive long enough that you can just wait and max attack speed instead of slowly increasing it.
1
8