Guides are player created. The guides found here are to help give guidance based on what has been found to work well. These guides are used to optimize your gameplay. When reading a guide, always check for the last version it was updated for. Using old guides and advice can lead to undesired results. It is possible to progress without following the guides.
The most important thing is to play in a way that is fun for you!
Contents
1
Beginner Guides
1.1
Resource Guides
2
Build Guides
3
Advanced Guides
Beginner Guides
These guides focus on what new players need to know when starting off. Guides in this section will help get players out of tier 1 and 2 as well as help make important early choices.
Common Abbreviations
List of common community abbreviations
Beginner Guide
Tier 1 guide - helps complete tier 1 & 2 as well as introduce builds.
FAQ |
Guide that answers common questions. Most of these questions are often confused as bugs instead of features.
Footguns |
Guide to upgrades that should be avoided or understood before upgrading for optimizing builds. If upgraded, it may take several months to correct or may not be able to be corrected.
Thinking about Perks
| Guide to help utilize perks alongside tips and tricks to maximize benefits
Rushing Tiers
| Explanation of features useful for squeezing a few extra waves in early-mid game
Resource Guides
Medals Guide
Priority list for spending medals in the event shop. Includes bot unlocks and bot upgrades.
Gem Guide
Helps players find the best use of gems.
Which UW do I select?
Helps players decide which Ultimate Weapons they should pick and why.
Coin Guide
A walkthrough on the basics of earning more coins. This guide will also discuss what syncing UWs is, how to do it and why it matters.
Event Guide
An explanation of how to efficiently get as many medals as possible per event.
Guardian guide
Guide to using guardian effectively for your build.
Build Guides
These guides will help you progress using strategies to optimize stats. These strategies will be look different for each player based on their progress and UWs. The guides are meant to provide you with the concepts and upgrades that will bring you success.
Health Build
Early-Mid Game
This build focuses on using hp to progress. This build will be most useful for new and mid-game players. If you are still on tier 1, you should use the beginner guide above before moving to this build.
UW Requirements:
N/A
Orb Devo
Early-Late Mid Game
This Orb Devo guide, created by Tremnen, takes into consideration DW changes and BH placement changes. Up-to-date,
UW Requirements:
GT/BH Sync, BH Size at Least 38m
SMAX Devo
Mid Game
This SMAX Devo guide, created by Tremnen, takes into consideration DW changes and BH placement changes. Accurate as of v26
UW Requirements:
GT/BH/SM Sync
50s SMax Devo
Late Mid - Late Game
This 50s SMAX Devo guide, created by Yugiohcd10, adjusts SMax into higher CD cooldowns and later game technologies. Contains an early entry and late entry strategy. Accurate as of v26
UW Requirements:
Early Entry: Min CDs of GT,DW,BH,GB and 50s SM. GT duration > 55s. See Guide for full lists of requirements
Orbless
Late Mid-Late Game
This guide is targeted to guide players to decide if they are ready for orbless and which orbless style is right for them.  It also gives an outline of what an orbless run looks like. Accurate as of V26.
UW Requirements:
Varies between orbless variants. Please reference Guide.
100% AFK Orb Devo
Late Mid-Late Game
This Guide, created by Yugiohcd10, is focused on taking orb devo and removing all micromanaging of stats in order to be 100% AFK. Covers both wall hoard and CF Hoard/Swirly Orb Devo as well as guide to eHP, Hybrid, and Glass Canon use. Accurate as of V26.
UW Requirements:
Varies between the orb devo variants. Please reference Guide.
Advanced Guides
These guides will build on the smaller details of the game. These will help you optimize your builds using the quirks of the game. These guides will be more helpful to those who have a solid foundation of the game.
Effective Paths Sheet
(External Google Sheet) | In depth tool to allow players to specifically enter their tower stats and see the most efficient use of coins, stones, and time for Health, damage, and econ. Please reference the "Who are the coolest guys here?" FAQ question to see all those involved in making this Tool possible.
[1]
1
8