The Vault
The Vault contains upgrade tech trees are a unique upgrade that require Keys to purchase upgrades in the Power (Tower-related Buffs) or Harmony (Non-Tower related buffs and QoL) Tech Tree. Keys can only be acquired through placements in the
Legends League
. Upgrades start at the bottom of each tree and grow and branch out to unlock additional upgrades.
The Vault becomes visible on the home screen once a player is promoted into the Legends League.
The images below show the available upgrades starting from the Top as the first unlock. the small white arrows show the direction of unlocks. The Power Tree has tier unlocks that unlock an additional level of upgrade on most nodes. Tier 2 of an upgrade costs double the keys and Tier 3 costs quadruple the keys of the Tier 1 cost. Tier 2 unlock becomes available when the player has 15 T1 unlocks. Tier 3 unlock becomes available when the player has 30 T1 unlocks and 15 T2 unlocks.
The following upgrades in the Power tree only have 1 level of upgrade: Ultimate Weapon Damage(All), Bot Range(All), Wall Rebuild, Shockwave Frequency, and Orbs.
Harmony Tree
Harmony Tech Descriptions
Expand
Upgrade
Description
Extra notes
Demon Mode Automation
Demon mode will activate when it's cooldown is complete.
Can be disabled by clicking the Demon Mod card
Smart Demon Mode Automation
Demon mode will activate to save the tower from a killing blow.
This only works if Demon Mode is available when the Killing blow is encountered. The order of priority for killing blows is Death Defy > Energy Shield > Second Wind > Smart Demon Mode > Smart Nuke.
Free Mission Reroll
Unlimited free mission rerolls
Nuke Automation
Nuke will activate when it's cooled down is complete.
Can be disabled by clicking the Nuke card
Smart Nuke Automation
Nuke will activate to save the tower from a killing blow.
Nuke does not destroy projectiles already in transit, so this may not prolong a death if a killing projectile is already traveling to the tower but as of
v27.3 (18 Dec, 2025)
Smart Nuke provides 15 seconds of invulnerability. The order of priority for killing blows is Death Defy > Energy Shield > Second Wind > Smart Demon Mode > Smart Nuke.
Workshop Presets
+5 workshop presets
The Presets retain how much coin is invested in Workshop and workshop enhancements and allows to you swap to a different distribution that you invest in.
Ad Gem Stack
Ad gems can stack up [2,3,5]x
It is worth noting that normally when a ad gem appears, the timer for the next ad gem does not start until the ad gem is claimed. Unlocking Ad Gem stack allows the timer to continue up to the new stack introducing more efficient gems/hour by reducing "stopped timers".
Missile Barrage Automation
Missile Barrage will activate when its cooldown is complete.
Smart Missile Barrage Automation
Missile Barrage will activate when the tower is hit.
Daily Mission - Set Shard Type
Set the shard type reward for daily missions.
Free Mission Reroll must be unlocked before you can unlock this.
Auto Shatter Rare Modules
Unlock a toggle to automatically shatter rare modules
Toggle may be found in the shatter section of the modules page.
Auto Restart Run
Automatically restart battles after being defeated.
This may be toggled on/off on the end run Game Stats screen. This takes a little longer than 5 minutes to restart from time of death. Due to this, some IOS users may need to adjust screen time-out settings to use this upgrade.
Auto Charge Berzerker
0.1% of enemy damage is added to berserker when you kill them.
Damage Cap Slier
Open the Tower damage stat in battle to adjust damage based on enemy health.
This causes your Tower damage to always be X% of enemy health and scales your damager to match enemy HP scaling as long as you have enough damage to be X% of enemy HP. Values can go low such as 1E-28%(Scientific Notation)
Bot Respec Discount
Gem discount on bot respecs.
Even with this upgrade, users are limited to the once per event Bot respec.(See Bot Presets)
Bot Presets
+3 bot presets and removes bot respec limits
The player now can respec an unlimited amount of times and use presets to save desired medal allocations.
Workshop Orb Adjuster
Adjust the range where workshop orbs orbit the tower
The adjuster appears when the Extra Orbs card is equipped. WS orbs now can be adjusted to the same choice of locations hat the orb adjuster adjusted Extra Orbs card orbs.
Bot Cooldown Sliders
Add a slider to adjust each bots cooldown.
Both lab and medal cooldown upgrades can be adjusted.
Power Tree
1
8