Contents
1
Overview & Basics
1.1
Enemies:
1.2
Tiers & Blenders
1.3
Coins & Defense
1.4
Tournaments & DPS
1.5
Swapping Builds
2
Tier 1
2.1
Your first Ultimate Weapon (UW)
2.2
Coins / Wave vs. Coins / Kill
2.3
DPS vs. Defense
2.4
Gem usage
2.5
Lab usage
3
Tier 2
3.1
Must-read: Range Labs
3.2
Main goal: Lab Speed Lab
3.3
Coin farming:
3.4
2nd Ultimate Weapon
3.5
Gem & Lab usage:
4
Tier 3
4.1
Modules
4.2
Guilds
4.3
Unlock Perks
4.4
First Perk Choice and Garlic Thorns
5
Tier 4
5.1
Death Wave labs
5.2
Daily Mission Shards
6
Tier 5
6.1
Events and Bots
7
Tier 6
7.1
Pitfall: Black Hole Damage lab
7.2
Must have: Black Hole Coin Bonus
8
Tier 7
9
Tier 8
10
Tier 9
11
Tier 10
11.1
Module power spike
11.2
Bot duration labs
11.3
Wall Regen & Wall Thorns
12
Tier 11
13
Tier 12
14
Tier 13
15
Tier 14
16
Tier 15
17
Tier 16
18
Tier 17
19
Tier 18
20
GT + DW + BH + MVN
20.1
Cooldown Sync'ing
20.2
Duration Sync'ing
Overview & Basics
A lot of guides are super detailed and take forever to read. Also, because there are so many tiers, with new features unlocked at each tier, it can be hard to even know which guides to read in the first place. This page will give a brief overview of each tier, what to do, and more importantly, what NOT to do, since a lot of decisions in this game are irreversible. I also want to quickly cover some basics that are relevant in all tiers:
Enemies:
enemies, such as Basic, Fast, Tank, and Ranged, are susceptible to Knockback, Orbs, Black Hole, Death Ray, and Thorns. These are usually dealt with by using Knockback or Black Hole to keep them at orbs' range
Elite
enemies, such as Scatter, Vampire, and Ray, appear more and more often at higher waves. They are susceptible to Knockback and Thorns. These are dealt with either with Knockback + DPS or with lack-of-knockback + Thorns
Boss
enemies appear every 10 rounds. They are only susceptible to Thorns, Plasma Cannon, and Energy Net. In the midgame, once Plasma Cannon takes off 54% of a boss's health, it can be one-shot by Thorns as long as your MaxHP is high enough to survive. Or, if you have the Energy Net card mastery, you can deal up to 20x damage to bosses, making them easy to handle with raw DPS
Tiers & Blenders
You want to unlock new tiers ASAP. The higher your max tier is, the more coins you get from Daily Missions and Weekly Boxes. For example, if your highest tier is Tier 1, you'll get 25 coins per mission completed. If your highest tier is Tier 18, you'll get 500,000,000 coins per mission. The difference is pretty massive, especially in the early game
The easiest way to advance through tiers is to use the Blender Thorns build. Basically, you unlock Knockback to keep all normal enemies at the edge of your tower's range, use Orbs at the edge of your range to insta-kill those normal enemies, and then rely on Plasma Cannon & Thorns to two-shot the bosses. Do this until Wave 100 to unlock the next tier
Coins & Defense
To farm coins efficiently, you need to reach higher waves, But going into higher waves comes with new problems and opportunities
The new problem is Elite enemies, which are immune to Orbs, Death Ray, Shockwave, and Black Hole, as well as having special properties. Ray enemies are ranged, making it hard to kill them before they can attack. Vampires are somewhat ranged, somewhat resistant to Thorns, and disable Lifesteal and Health Regen (but not Wall Regen) while they're attacking. And Scatter enemies split in half when they're killed, creating up to 16 children. I.e., even if your Thorns can one-shot them, you'll still get hit 1+2+4+8+16=31 times, per Scatter
But there's also an amazing opportunity here. Perks can provide +25% defense and reduce enemies' damage by 55%, for a maximum of 99.1% defense total. For comparison, the maximum Defense% without Perks is only 85.5%, which 16.111x as much damage taken as 99.1% defense. Also, Perks can provide x45.6 Health Regen, making Health Regen one of the most-important stats. And finally, with all decent perks collected, Damage is only increased by 80%, so Perks benefit defensive builds much more than offensive builds. And thus, Defense and Farming go hand-in-hand
Typically, the strategy for defensive farming is to keep the enemies alive as long as possible, using either Knockback or perma-Black Hole, and then kill them all at once whenever Golden Tower + Death Wave + Black Hole is up. There's also a 1.4x Coin Multiplier for enemies killed by Orbs if you have Lv.9 Extra Orbs mastery, so the most-effective strategy is usually to keep all enemies alive with Knockback, wait until GT+DW+BH activate, and then have Black Hole suck all the enemies into the orbs' range
Tournaments & DPS
Tournaments do not have perks. I.e., you will likely take at least 16.1x damage from enemies compared to farming runs. Defensive builds are not nearly as good during tournaments. And, on top of that, there are often Battle Condition which can hinder certain builds even further, such as making Thorns do only 5% of their usual damage and making certain enemies immune to Black Hole
As such, DPS is almost always the meta when competing in higher-level tournaments
Swapping Builds
Modules can be swapped out for free using the Restore Level feature. For example, if you typically use a Lv.100 Galaxy Compressor for farming, but need a Lv.100 Crowd Funding for tournaments, you can Restore Level on Galaxy Compressor to free up all of its shards and coins, totally free of charge
Workshop Respec costs 150 gems per respec and can be done infinitely afaik
Bot Respec costs 300 gems per respec and can only be done once per event
Most labs are permanent, though Range and Shockwave labs can be adjusted between rounds
Tier 1
Your first Ultimate Weapon (UW)
Choosing your first ultimate weapon will not be your first decision, but it is the only irreversible pitfall decision you can make at Tier 1. And it is also the most-important decision you will make. As a brand new player, your best options are:
Golden Tower:
The best Ultimate Weapon, period. Increases your coin income by at least +20% in the early game and up to +4212% in the late game. The last thing you want is to forfeit Golden Tower at the start and then not get it again until your 7th UW. This UW receives a decent power spike after Tier 4, Wave 200.
Black Hole or Death Wave*
Black Hole or Death Wave*
Spotlight:
Similar situation as Black Hole, but worse. Spotlight is amazing in the late-game. However, it requires a TON of investment, is very reliant on ancestral sub-modules, and doesn't receive its power spike until Tier 7, wave 80. At this point, it grants x3 coins from enemies killed within the spotlight range. A very good UW to have in the late game; almost useless in the early game.
Restart:
There's an 88% chance that you get GT, DW, BH, or SL as an option for your first ultimate weapon. If you're in the 12% that got super unlucky? I highly recommend restarting tbh.
Chain Lightning:
Best DPS UW, Receives its power spike at Tier 7
Smart Missiles:
Very inconsistent and misses a lot. Power spike at Tier 7
Chrono Field:
Slows down enemies. Not very useful until you have other sources of DPS. Power spike at Tier 7.
Inner Landmines:
Inconsistent, misses a lot. Needs an event-limited core module to be useful. Power spike at Tier 7.
Poison Swamp:
This UW is just plain bad. It attempts to balance both dps and defense, and ends up providing very little to either. Power spike at Tier 7.
*Death Wave vs. Black Hole:
Less than 1/12 players will experience this choice on their first UW, but let me break it down just in case:
Black Hole, in the early game, is a detriment. It will suck in enemies, then release them all at once to bombard your tower and kill you. However, after Tier 5, wave 150, Black Hole can provide x11 coins from enemies killed within Black Hole, making it a must-have for the midgame. Also, once properly invested in, Black Hole will never bombard you because Black Hole will never end. Also, Black Hole is relatively cheap to invest in, getting to the point of sucking in all common enemies, permanently, with just 2807 stones invested into it, making it one of the most powerful UWs near the start of the game
Death Wave, in the early game, is just alright. It starts with a 300s cooldown, same as Golden Tower, allowing them both to pop off at the same time. It's very easy to keep these 2 UWs synchronized. It also provides 1.5x coins from enemies affected and can provide a Max HP multiplier of up to x5.25. It also receives a massive power spike at Tier 3, wave 250, increasing its coin bonus to 2.5x and its health bonus to 12.5x. And in the late game, it also provides x3 cells from affected enemies, allowing you to research labs much faster
In my personal opinion, Death Wave is the better UW for the early and late game, but Black Hole is also extremely powerful in the midgame. Which UW works best for you will depend on which stage of the game you value more.
Coins / Wave vs. Coins / Kill
Coins / Kill is superior in the late game and at higher waves, as you can increase the amount of enemies that spawn. More enemies = more kills = more coins
But in the early game? Coins / Wave is king. There will be some waves where you don't get a single fast / tank / etc. enemy, meaning some waves give 0 coins / kill. But Coins / Wave is much more consistent and also scales a lot better.
DPS vs. Defense
DPS will be the way to go for the first few hours. However, once you unlock Thorns and get it to at least 5%? Defense Absolute is the way to go. With DPS, you can get unlucky and have 5 tanks spawn at once, overwhelming you with the sheer fluctuation of HP each wave has. But with Defense Absolute? If enemies deal 100 damage, and you have >100 Defense Absolute, it won't matter which enemies spawn. And Defense Absolute scales petty well at Tier 1
Gem usage
The only thing you can buy right now are Cards or Lab Speed and if you buy Lab Speed, you'll run out of coins. Literally just buy cards as often as possible until you max them all out
Lab usage
Game Speed > Coins / Wave > Defense Absolute > everything else
Tier 2
Must-read: Range Labs
Some builds like to have high range. Other builds like to have low range
High range builds:
Glass Cannon
(raw dps), since more range = more time = more damage
0 Damage, Knockback Permastall:
Higher range keeps the wave 1 enemies away from Thorns, Orbs, etc. to keep the first enemies alive, reach the enemy cap quickly, and prevent any newer, stronger enemies from spawning. Very low income, but effective at reaching high tiers in tournaments
Low range builds:
Blender:
By keeping Range = Orb's Range, you can use Knockback to keep enemies at the edge of the tower's range, which in turn allows Orbs to destroy almost everything
Black Hole builds:
The smaller your tower's range, the more of your range that Black Hole can cover. Ideally, you want Black Hole to cover your entire range in order to suck up enemies before they die, either for x11 Coin Bonus or to perma-stall all enemies
Devo:
Short for De-evolution, this build focuses entirely on income. The goal is to save as many enemies as possible until GT + DW + BH activates by lowering your damage, suck as many enemies into Black Hole as possible by lowering your Range, and kill as many enemies in the center of your range as possible (more likely they'll be within Gold Bot's range) by lowering your Knockback. In the late game, Devo builds may prefer to kill enemies with orbs for x1.4 Coin Bonus due to Card Masteries
Luckily, you are able to customize your Range Lab while outside of battle, allowing you to adjust it between 1x and 4x depending on your build. This is a relatively new feature afaik, but you must be outside of battle to adjust the Range Lab
Main goal: Lab Speed Lab
The main goal in Tier 2, ironically, is to reach Tier 1, wave 150, to unlock Lab Speed labs. In the late game, lab speed becomes a major limiting factor. The Lab Speed lab, once maxed out, grants x4 lab speed. But it takes forever to max out, so it's best to start researching it ASAP
Coin farming:
The easiest way to farm coins at this stage is to keep upgrading Coins / Wave and just spam Retry on Tier 2. Tier 2 gives a 1.8x coin multiplier, making it the much better option for Coins / Wave Farming at
Tier 1, however, may allow you to reach higher waves with more enemies, and may also provide more time to upgrade Coins / Wave and Coins / Kill with cash, making it the better farming option if you have time to sit there and buy upgrades with cash
Quick tip: By clicking on your cash/coin/gem counter in the top left of your screen during your battle, you can toggle the counter between Total Currencies and Currencies / Minute
2nd Ultimate Weapon
The order of priority is still the same as in Tier 1. Golden Tower > Death Wave > Black Hole > Spotlight > Everything else
Gem & Lab usage:
Gem progress isn't necessarily tier-specific. But at this point, you'll probably have enough good cards that you'll want to buy the 3rd card slot, and your coin income should be good enough that you'll want to buy the 3rd lab slot and have 3 labs running at once. Game Speed > Lab Speed > whichever labs are cheapest > DO NOT UPGRADE RANGE
Tier 3
Modules
Modules technically unlock just before Tier 3, at Tier 2 wave 90, but it's close enough that I'll talk about them here
Modules are probably the most-complex part of this game. But, in general, there's 6 things you need to know about them:
Abilities:
Modules that are drawn as epic have unique abilities, such as allowing Health Regen to heal above your MaxHP or insta-killing 15% of enemies
Level / stats:
You level up a module by collecting shards, usually from shattering other modules, to help the module gain exp. Higher level = more stats and more sub-modules
Sub-modules:
Sub-modules are basically re-rollable abilities. The higher your module's level, the more sub-modules it can have
Merging / rank:
The higher a module's rank is, the better its ability will be, the higher its max level is, and the better sub-modules you can roll. A module can gain rank by merging identical modules into it. I.e., feeding 2 Epic+ Multiverse Nexuses to your Mythical+ Multiverse Nexus will produce an Ancestral Multiverse Nexus. It takes >2 identical Epics to create a Legend, >4 identical Epics to create a Mythical, and >8 identical Epics to create an Ancestral. At >10, a star is added to the module's rank, providing a slight stat multiplier and increasing the max level
Banners:
Soon, there will be a total of 20 different modules that start off as Epic. And you can only equip 4 modules at a time. I.e., if you were to pull randomly, and pulled all 20 epic modules, 75% of your epic modules would go totally unused. But if you pull while there's a banner, and you're lucky enough to pull an Epic module, there's a 50% chance that it will be the module from the banner. I.e., if you were to pull until you pulled 20 epic modules, 10 of those modules would be identical and the other 10 would be random, giving you at least 1 Ancestral module. So, if possible, it's usually better to save your gems until the right banner comes along
Shard income:
Even if you spent $1000 on gems right now, to roll for tons of modules, your income would be lackluster. This is because, although modules are unlocked at Tier 2, they don't receive their power spikes until Tier 4, wave 70 (+1% Common Module Drop Chance); Tier 10, wave 40 (-30% Module Shard Cost and +1% Rare Module Drop Chance); Tier 16, wave 40 (+100% shards from shattering modules); and ??? (ability to ban certain sub-modules when re-rolling, increasing the odds to roll sub-modules you actually want)
TL;DR: Modules are great, but don't go too heavy on them until the late game. Cards, Card Slots, and Lab Slots are more important than modules in the early game.
Guilds
There's not much to say about guilds tbh. Each guild can have up to 30 players. Players contribute to the guild by completing Weekly Missions and opening the boxes. Each Weekly Mission box gives you 5 tokens and contributes 5 to the guild. As the guild reaches certain amounts of weekly contributions, all players are given a large amount of tokens and bits
Tokens are used to buy cosmetic items that give a small +Coin% multiplier, as well as some powerful relics
Currently, Bits are pretty useless. They're used to upgrade your Guardian, which does almost nothing
Unlock Perks
Once you get to Tier 3, your first goal is going to be to unlock Perks by going back and beating Tier 2, wave 150. This lab will take another 3 days to research, so it's best to get it ASAP. Once unlocked in labs, you'll be given a choice between 2 new perks every 200 waves. Perks reset at the end of each run, making each run very unique and, tbh, RNG-dependent. The best perks, at this stage of the game are:
-20% Perk Wave Requirement:
Instead of gaining new perks at wave 200, 400, 600, etc., perks will unlock at waves 160, 320, 480, etc. This Perk can stack up to 3 times, up to 60% at this stage of the game, at which point you gets perks at waves 80, 160, 240, etc. This is exceptionally good for longer runs
-50% damage dealt, -50% damage taken:
At this stage of the game, especially in longer runs, you'll be relying on orbs to insta-kill common enemies, and 99% Thorns to two-shot bosses, neither of which are affected by your Damage stat. Your main strategy, at this stage of the game, will simply be to knockback all common enemies into the orbs and to survive 2 hits from each boss. Halving the boss's damage will allow you to do that
Defense +5%:
This can stack up to 5 times, likely bringing your Defense% stat from 50% to 75%, allowing you to survive twice as long once again. If you also have +5% Defense on your cards, going from 75% Defense to 80% Defense is also a pretty major leap
First Perk Choice and Garlic Thorns
Once you unlock Perks, you should be able to RNG your way to Tier 2 wave 1000 pretty easily, unlocking First Perk Choice and Garlic Thorns
First Perk Choice is self-explanatory, but the lab to unlock it costs about 1 billion coins, so it's unlikely you'll be able to afford it anytime soon
Vampire enemies are typically immune to Thorns and are the bane of towers that rely on lifesteal or regeneration. Garlic Thorns allows up to 5% of your Thorns value to affect Vampire enemies as well. This will help you a lot in your longer runs, opening the door to Cell farming to increase your lab speed. However, Vampires will still be a major problem until you unlock Wall Regen at Tier 10
Tier 4
Death Wave labs
At Tier 3, Wave 250, you can unlock the labs for Death Wave Health Bonus and Death Wave Coin Bonus
Death Wave Coin Bonus takes the multiplier from 1.5x to 2.5x
Death Wave Health Bonus takes the multiplier from 5.25x max hp to 12.5x max hp, making you > twice as tanky in longer runs
Daily Mission Shards
At Tier 4, wave 70, you'll unlock the Daily Mission Shards lab, which provides up to +50 shards per Daily Mission. This is a very good lab to max out asap, as it provides +300 shards / day. As a reminder, shards are used to increase the level of modules, improving their stats and allowing you to equip more sub-modules. This is probably the best way to collect shards in the early game
Tier 5
Events and Bots
During Tier 5, you'll unlock 4 very important, but very volatile labs:
Flame Bot Frequency:
Reduces Flame Bot's cooldown by up to 25s, bringing the minimum cooldown from 30s to 5s
Thunder Bot Frequency:
Reduces Thunder Bot's cooldown by up to 25s, bringing the minimum cooldown from 75s to 50s
Golden Bot Frequency:
Reduces Golden Bot's cooldown by up to 25s, bringing the minimum cooldown from 75s to 50s
Amplify Bot Frequency:
Reduces Amplify Bot's cooldown by up to 25s, bringing the minimum cooldown from 75s to 50s
While these labs sound great on the surface, they can be quite volatile. For example: Let's pretend that your GT + BH + DW are synchronized on a 150s timer. To synchronize your Golden Bot with your UWs in this scenario, you need its cooldown to be either 150s (not possible), 75s (very possible), or 50s (possible, but very expensive).
To reach 50s, you'd have to pump 5700 medals into the bot's cooldown, plus have all -25s from the lab. Not only is this incredibly expensive, but it also de-synchronizes as soon as your UWs go down to a 140s cooldown.
To reach 75s, ideally, you'd only pump 2800 medals into the bot's cooldown, plus have -15s from the lab. Not only is this a lot cheaper, but also gives you the ability to re-synchronize easily when your UW cooldowns go down. Ideally, based on your UW cooldowns, these should be your Golden Bot labs & upgrades:
200s UWs: 900 medals, -5s labs for 100s GB cooldown
190s UWs: 1200 medals, -7s labs for 95s GB cooldown
180s UWs: 1540 medals, -9s labs for 90s GB cooldown
170s UWs: 1920 medals, -11s labs for 85s GB cooldown
160s UWs: 2340 medals, -13s labs for 80s GB cooldown
150s UWs: 2800 medals, -15s labs for 75s GB cooldown
140s UWs: 3300 medals, -17s labs for 70s GB cooldown
130s UWs: 3840 medals, -19s labs for 65s GB cooldown
120s UWs: 4420 medals, -21s labs for 60s GB cooldown
110s UWs: 5040 medals, -23s labs for 55s GB cooldown
100s UWs: 5700 medals, -25s labs for 50s GB cooldown
88s UWs: 88s UWs are an ultra-lategame cooldown, only possible once you have permanent Black Hole, permanent Death Wave, and the -12s Golden Tower cooldown sub-module. It is a very niche scenario that not many players will make it to. And although it is possible to get Golden Bot on an 88s cooldown, it is better to keep it on a 50s cooldown and have it activate twice within GT's duration. Having them synchronized at this point would have GB active for only 50% of GT's maximum duration, whereas having GB on an 80% uptime with 40s duration, 50s cooldown, would have GB active for an average of 80% of GT's maximum duration
However, if you've already upgraded this lab to the max of -25s, you can still synchronize with your UWs by having:
190s UWs, 95s GB (0 medals)
160s UWs, 80s GB (900 medals)
150s UWs, 50s GB (5700 medals)
130s UWs, 65s GB (2800 medals)
100s UWs, 50s GB (5700 medals)
80s UWs, 80s GB (900 medals)
If you're also willing to incorporate the core module, Multiverse Nexus, with GT,BH,DW cooldown sub-modules into the mix, you'll have even more options for synchronization despite having -25s CD on lab already.  Below is a google spreadsheet showing all possible cooldowns and which sub-modules you need to achieve them. Sync-able cooldowns are highlighted, and color-coded based on how many medals you'll need to spend to sync them
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pEoz__1f8wj9FjMuk4MEaGXIJVsdqGe_dixKyWxdutE/edit?usp=sharing
Tier 6
Pitfall: Black Hole Damage lab
At Tier 5, wave 150, you'll unlock the options for Black Hole Coins and Black Hole Damage. Black Hole Damage can reach up to 2% damage / second, killing most enemies within 50 seconds... This upgrade can be either a blessing or a curse depending on your playstyle:
Blessing: More damage during Black Hole means you're more likely to kill enemies within Black Hole, gaining extra coins
Curse: Black Hole can be used for perma-stall strategies. By getting Black Hole cooldown and duration to 50s each, and having them big enough to cover the whole tower's range, you can suck in every enemy and never let them go. This is superior to other perma-stall strategies because, in other strategies, the enemies are usually attacking the tower, and their damage increases by 4% per attack. But with perma-Black Hole, they can't reach the tower, and they take up the spawn cap, stopping new enemies from spawning
Researching this lab is irreversible. So if you want this lab now, but change your mind later, it'll be too late. I recommend putting this decision on the backlog until later in the game
Must have: Black Hole Coin Bonus
Black Hole Coin Bonus provides up to x11 coins from enemies killed within the Black Hole. Assuming you have Black Hole synced with Golden Tower and Death Wave, this is a roughly x11 multiplier to your coin income
Tier 7
Tier 8
Tier 9
Tier 10
Module power spike
At Tier 10, wave 40, modules receive a pretty heavy power spike. You'll unlock 3 labs:
Reduce the shard cost, for leveling up modules, by up to 30%. This discount also applies retroactively, meaning you can Restore Level to get back 100% of the modules you've spent so far and then immediately reinvest them with the 30% discount
Doubles the chances of getting rare modules from bosses
Reduces coin cost of upgrading modules (not as impactful as the other 2)
Bot duration labs
At Tier 10, wave 50, you'll unlock 4 labs:
Up to 7
Flame Bot
stacks (footgun)
Up to +10s
Golden Bot
duration
Up to +10s
Amplify Bot
duration
Up to +13s
Thunder Bot
linger time
Flame Bot Stacks
can actually be detrimental, and are rarely ever useful. Firstly, even at max stacks and max investment, Flame Bot only provides up to 1470x damage / second, which is small compared to Chain Lightning etc. Second, if you want to do a Devo strategy, where you keep all enemies alive until GT + DW + BH activate and kill them for extra coins, having more damage on Flame bot can kill a lot enemies without providing coin bonuses. And since Flame Bot also provides up to 80% damage resistance, turning it off isn't really an option. Between being not great for dps and detrimental for Defense & Devo builds, I highly recommend skipping this lab
Golden Bot Duration
is a good stat to have, but it loses a ton of value as it gets higher. This is because, assuming you have Golden Bot synchronized with GT + DW + BH, Golden Bot only needs to last as long as DW lasts. This is because, without DW's 2.5x multiplier, all income after DW is only 40% of what it is during DW. DW lasts for (Effect Waves * 4 seconds) + however long Death Wave stays up for. But, in general, Quantity * 4s is how long DW lasts. And since Quantity can only go up to 9, you only needs Golden Bot duration to have a total of 36s until the ultra lategame
Amplify Bot
duration and
Thunder Bot
linger time should be as high as you can afford while staying synchronized with your UWs
Wall Regen & Wall Thorns
At Tier 10, wave 70, you'll unlock 2 very useful labs:
Wall Thorns: Allows Wall to apply Thorns of up to 20% of your tower's thorns. I.e., they can destroy most enemies in 5 or 6 hits
Wall Regen: Allows Wall to regenerate health at up to 300% of your tower's Health Regen stat. This regeneration cannot be shut down by Vampire enemies
It's at this point in the game that Wall, and defensive builds in general, become extremely good at farming into later waves. Not only is Wall Regen not shut down by Vampires; removing the main threat to defensive builds; but it also makes Wormhole Redirector obsolete. Instead, you can change your armor module to something like Anti-Cube Portal, which grants up to x25 damage against enemies hit by shockwaves for 7 seconds.
Tier 11
Tier 12
Tier 13
Tier 14
Tier 15
Tier 16
Tier 17
Tier 18
GT + DW + BH + MVN
These are not necessarily tier-specific, but they progress slowly and have plenty of opportunities for footguns, so they're in the same spirit of this guide. A quick overview:
Golden Tower
provides up to x43.125 coins, for up to 80 seconds, with a minimum cooldown of 88 seconds. I.e., while GT isn't activate / synced, you could be losing 97.7% of your potential income
Black Hole
traps enemies, damages enemies, and can provide up to x11 coins. It has a maximum uptime of 54s and a minimum cooldown of 46s, allowing it to be permanent. Whenever Black Hole is not active / not synced, you could be losing 91% of your potential income
Death Wave
provides x2.5 coins and x3 cells from enemies hit by Effect Waves or Death Wave. Its duration is essentially (Quantity*4) seconds + however long Death Wave Ring lasts before its damage pool is depleted. I.e., whenever Death Wave / Effect Waves are not active or not synced, you're losing 60% of your potential income. Has a maximum duration of 36 seconds and a minimum cooldown of 37 seconds
Multiverse Nexus:
Automatically synchronizes the cooldowns of GT, DW, and BH, turning them all into (Total Cooldown)/3+Modifier. Modifier decreases as MVN ranks up, down to -10s at Ancestral Level
Cooldown Sync'ing
Firstly, if you haven't already, please read the
Events and Bots
guide in the Tier 5 section, as keeping
Golden Bot
sync'd with your UWs is very important as well
TL;DR: You want to start off with a 2:1 ratio between BH:GT,DW. I.e., start off with 150s BH, 300s GT,DW, and then apply 5 upgrades at a time for 140:280, 130:260, etc. Then, once your MVN is at Ancestral level, you want to pivot towards MVN instead.
If you want the long version? In total, there are 7 possible strategies:
(good)
6:1 BH:GTDW:
It costs a total of 2,040 stones to get Black Hole to 50s whilst keeping GT,DW at 300s. This allows you to invest into Perma-Black Hole for combat reasons, perma-stalling and potentially killing all normal enemies, whilst staying sync'd up with GT,DW, and Golden Bot. The overall income is C-, but the combat value is A+
(bad)
5:1 BH:GTDW:
There are only 2 options here, and they're both bad. Getting a 60:300 sync costs 1778 stones, but your Black Hole won't be permanent, so it'll dump a bunch of enemies on you every 60 seconds and kill you. Getting a 50:250 sync costs 2470 stones, but Golden Bot can't sync with a 250s until it has a minimum cooldown of 50s, which is extremely expensive in terms of medals
(good)
4:1 BH:GTDW:
At 70:280, the stone cost is 1604, and everything's terrible. At 60:240, the stone cost is 2396. You have neither perma-BH nor good income, but Golden Bot can be synced with 120s cooldown (0 medals). At 50:200, everything's great. The cost is 3750, you have perma-BH, and Golden Bot can be synced with only 100s cooldown
(bad)
3:1 BH:GTDW:
At 100:300, the stone cost is 910, making it cheap to get into. And Golden Bot can be synced fairly cheaply at every stage. However, 2:1 BH:GTDW is just better
(good)
2:1 BH:GTDW:
At 150:300, the stone cost is only 230, making it the cheapest non-MVN sync possible. At 120:240, the stone cost is 1202, and the Golden Bot medal cost is 0. It is also cheaper than all previous ratios, and only loses to 1:1 and MVN starting at 200 cooldown. Also, everyone eventually ends up with 50s BH, 100s GT,DW anyway for the sake of combat
(meh)
1:1 BH:GTDW:
1:1 isn't necessarily
bad,
persay, but its outclasses on both sides. It costs 1710 stones for a 100:200 sync, making it very expensive in the early game, and then gets heavily outclassed by MVN in the midgame, With 2:1 being cheaper and MVN being better, 1:1 just doesn't really have a niche. Also, it costs 9060 stones to get to 100s sync, meaning it'll take forever to afford perma-BH for combat purposes
(very good)
MVN:
Not only is MVN the cheapest, easiest, and most-effective sync strategy, but it's also the most flexible. I.e., if you want GT,BH,DW sync during farming runs, but perma-BH + Dimension Core during tournaments, you can switch back and forth simply by investing 2040 stones into BH CD and then switching modules back and forth. It also allows you to reach sync times that wouldn't be possible otherwise, going as low as 54s with 1 sub-module, 51s with 2 sub-modules, or 50s with 3 sub-modules... However, surprisingly, MVN becomes a detriment in the ultra-late game, for several reasons:
Having MVN equipped means you can't equip a different core module. Other core modules could help you reach higher waves for more coins and cells
It's hard to achieve perma-BH with MVN equipped, unless you turn off GT and DW or have their cooldowns maxed. However, using MVN with just Black Hole can bring its cooldown down to 40s, making perma-BH easier in tournaments once GT and DW have done their jobs (10b cash, 12.5x maxHP)
Once you max out every attribute of these UWs, you actually make 6% more coins without MVN. This is most because, once you have 36s uptime and 37s cooldown on DW, having a 50s MVN sync means DW is only up for 74% of the time. By contrast, if you have have 80s uptime and 88s cooldown on GT, GT stays up 91% of the time without MVN. I.e., adding MVN at this stage gives you +9% GT uptime and -26% DW uptime, which comes out to +6% income by taking MVN off. But this is only in the ULTRA-lategame, once you've maxed out these UWs entirely and have 5+ of their sub-modules at ancestral level
Anyway, here's the Google spreadsheet showing all the math and stuff:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1bQbRRFXMVosodJY03bRmAbt19WpQR2-YnJL91DDv3Tk/edit?usp=sharing
In my opinion,
the best way to start is to invest 230 stones into Black Hole Cooldown at the start to have a 150s:300s ratio between BH:GTDW. Later, when you get ancestral MVN, you'll have (150+300+300)/3-10 = 240 second sync, allowing you to sync up with Golden Bot's 120s cooldown quite nicely. A 300s -> 240s sync for just 230 stones and 0 medals. This allows you to focus your stones & medals into other things, like GT Bonus and GB Bonus, before having to focus on cooldowns
Duration Sync'ing
When DW, BH, and GT are all active, you get x27.5 xGT
When BH and GT are both active without DW, you only get x11 xGT
And whenever GT is active, but on its own, you only get xGT
I.e., GT Duration is only worth 1/70th of what DW Quantity is worth, and only 1/10th of what BH is worth. Having all 3 UWs active at the same time is just so much more beneficial than having one UW activating on its own
However, although DW Quantity is the most effective upgrade, it is also the most-expensive, dragging down its cost-effectiveness significantly. I went through and calculated the best sequence of GTDWBH upgrades and, surprisingly, BH Duration is almost always the most cost-effective due to how cheap it is. You can find the data here:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14INj4qv1XcJl3hSNnPPtvQ4nvsCuvIg1AEip_BCQmnA/edit?usp=sharing
Outside of just upgrading with stones, however, there are several methods to increase "duration":
If you have an ancestral core module, you can get the ancestral module "+3 Death Wave Quantity," increasing Death Wave's duration by >12s
Allowing enemies to live outside of UWs, but always killing them within UWs, allows enemies to spawn 24/7 until the enemy cap is reached. To kill them within the UWs' duration, you can either use Black Hole to suck enemies into your orbs, or you can use Smart Missiles in sync with the other UWs to nuke the enemies every 20 seconds or so
Perks can give you +4s of Death Wave, +12s of Black Hole, x1.5 GT Bonus
You can get +20s GT Duration from labs
Is it worth noting, however, that maxing out your Durations with stones only provides an 82% boost compared to investing 0 stones into Durations. Cooldowns are usually more important
1
8